## Paper Readings & Presentations

Version History: 

- Released, 2020/08/28

See the syllabus for the paper reading schedule.


In this exercise we are:

- Learning about human participant methods through reading and discussion
- Increasing our skill and experience in reading and analyzing research papers
- Practicing presentation of academic work.

#### Presenting Papers

You will be expected to present papers no more than four times in this class. The
selection of these papers will be done on 2020/09/03. The papers are in the
syllabus on the scheduled dates. Your selection will determine the dates you
select.

Everyone will choose one "pre-cleared student choice" date. You may select the
paper for that date with the instructor's approval. You need not state the
paper on 2020/09/03, but you need to select it two weeks in advance. You may
suggest any academic paper as long as human methods are involved. This
includes papers with human participant data in conferences outside of
visualization.

There are also suggested papers are listed in the syllabus. You may also
consider the last several years of conferences such as VIS, EuroVis,
PacificVis, CHI, and UIST. A relevant paper for your project's related work
may also be a good choice.

##### The Presentation & Discussion

You will prepare an approximately 25 minute (without interruption)
presentation on the paper(s) for your given date. You may be interrupted with
questions during the presentation, so the time from start to finish in
lecture may be different.

The presentation should summarize the paper, with a focus on the intersection
with human methods. To better help everyone understand the paper, you may need
to incorporate references made by the paper (e.g., figures from other papers
to help understand this one) or definitions and explanations of techniques
used by the papers (e.g., statistical techniques). You may need to define a
visualization or augment descriptions with pictures of visualizations
referenced.

Many papers have videos as supplemental material. You may want to include
clips from them.

Your presentation should also include your reaction and critique of the
techniques presented and the paper itself, both the positive and the negative.

Following the presentation, you will use the remaining time to lead the
discussion. It will be helpful for you to prepare topics, questions, and
comments referencing parts of the paper(s) and how they relate to the general
topics of this class. Subject matter may include the strengths and weaknesses
of the techniques or other aspects of the paper, comparisons to other
techniques and papers, impact of the paper, or anything else of interest
regarding the paper. 

It is up to you how to structure the discussion, when to change topics, and
how to manage the discussion (e.g., eliciting an opinion from a classmate,
seguing from an argument going in circles). You will also need to balance
people who speak using audio and those who rely on the chat.

Your presentations/discussion leading will be graded on:

* (30 pts) the inclusion of the content described
* (10 pts) the effectiveness and clarity of conveying that information
* (20 pts) the use of visual aids and spoken word.
* (10 pts) the structure and flow of the presentation: Do the topics change naturally or is it disjointed? Do you know what you are going to say or do you halt and/or read off the slides? Do you speak at a reasonable pace?
* (30 pts) the management of the discussion including being prepared with
  topics and managing participants in the discussion 


If you are unable to attend the synchronous discussion, you must: 

1. Upload a recording of your presentation somewhere accessible by the
   students and instructor 24 hours in advance, such as Youtube or Google
Drive. Email the instructor with the link. You may use a private link, **but**
note the instructor does not have an `email.arizona.edu` Google account, so
you may not limit Google Drive uploads to that domain. 

2. Email the instructor your preparations for leading the discussion (e.g.,
   topics, questions, comments, the order in which you will bring them up,
etc.) The instructor will use these to lead the discussion in your stead. You
will be graded on the materials, not the subsequent discussion. 


#### Discussing Papers

This is a discussion-based class. You are expected to participate actively in
the discussion. The instructor will assess your participation throughout the
term.

To prepare for this, you should read the paper beforehand.  Consider the
methods used, their applicability elsewhere, the presentation of the paper,
and its overall findings. What were the strengths and weaknesses of both the
method and the paper? Were there parts you didn't understand? Were there parts
that were surprising? Were there parts you would change if you conducted the
research? What is the impact of the research results? 

Note: although the discussion is being led by the person presenting, you may
suggest focus topics through your comments and questions. Do not be concerned
with the discussion following a structure, it is more important that it is
active and beneficial to your learning. The discussion leader can re-direct
the conversation should it reach a standstill, drift, or deadlock.

If you are unable to attend the synchronous discussion, you must watch the
recording of the discussion. Then, go to the thread regarding the paper in
Piazza and respond to at least three comments made during the discussion. You
will be graded on the substantiveness of those responses.


#### Reading Check Quiz

There will be a short reading check quiz available through D2L and due 9 AM
the day the paper is to be discussed.

Among the questions you will be asked on this quiz is what comment or question
you have for the subsequent discussion.

The quiz is meant to be ten minutes in length, but you will not be timed.  

If you are unable to attend the synchronous discussion, you are still expected
to submit this quiz with the same deadline.


#### Discussion Check Quiz

There will be a short discussion check quiz available through D2L and due 36
hours after any in class paper discussion. 

The quiz is meant to be five minutes in length, but you will not be timed.  

If you are unable to attend the synchronous discussion, you are expected to
watch the discussion video and take this quiz. The due date is the same.
