## Project Milestone 1

Version History: 

- Released, 2020/8/25


Due Thursday September 17, 23:59 

In this milestone we are:

- Planning the research project we will do during the semester
- Verifying we have the resources needed to complete the project
- Explaining why the project is important and beneficial to the visualization
  community and society at large
- Verifying we can build a more complicated LaTeX file

Github Classroom URL: <a href="https://classroom.github.com/g/dhuQlT_z">https://classroom.github.com/g/dhuQlT_z</a>

Included with this Github Classroom assignment are the LaTeX files required to
format an IEEE VGTC-style document. You will need to fill in the files
`proposal.tex`, `intro.tex`, `background.tex`, `research.tex`, `impact.tex`,
and `proposal.bib`. You may also need to add figures to the `figs` directory.
Included is a `Makefile` to build the document into a PDF. What you turn in
should build if I type `make` at the command line, resulting in a PDF that I
can review and grade.

In your repository on Github (**note just your local repository**) should be
all the files I need to build your proposal when I type `make`. **DO NOT
INCLUDE** the pre-built `proposal.pdf`, any auxiliary files from the build
(e.g., `proposal.aux`, `proposal.log`, `proposal.bbl`), or any other files
nnot needed to build the proposal (e.g., `.DS_STORE`).

If you want to see these files before setting up you repository, they are
[here](https://github.com/uacsc696dfall2020/pm1-base).


Full instructions with points associated are within the files. Below is an
overview:

In the `intro.tex` file, you will briefly describe the problem/question, the
background necessary to understand the problem/question, why the
problem/question is important, and how you plan to address the problem.

In the `background.tex` file, you will go into more detail about the knowledge
necessary to understand the problem/question. You will also review related
work in solving the problem/answering the question.

In the `research.tex` file, you will discuss your plan to complete the project
(solve the problem) during the semester. You will include information about
your access to  resources and your argument for the technology you will use
along with a timeline which details how the other project milestones will be
applied to your project. 

In the `impact.tex` file, you will discuss what impact solving the
problem/answering the question may have and what will be learned by the
community.

This milestone will be graded on the thoroughness of your proposal as well as
the adherence to format and overall readability. In terms of thoroughness I
will evaluate whether it fills out all the sections reasonably and answers all
the questions given therein.  

**If any subsection is deemed insufficient, you will be asked to resubmit it
in the following milestone.**

Note you should have the general idea of your project verified by me verbally
(through office hours, email, or after class) **BEFORE** you turn in this
proposal. If you have not done so, I will not accept the proposal.


